 you must believe me, nothing I did could possibly have removed the stars from existence!'

'So neither you nor your experiment stole the stars from us,' said the lawyer.

'No,' Tomas said.

'You just made it so that we can't see them any more.'

After a long pause, Tomas sighed. 'Yes.'

The lawyer raised an eyebrow. 'How is that any different?'

Tomas didn't have an answer, not one anyone would understand anyway, let alone believe. He had a theory, but it would take years to prove it.

Instead, he changed his plea to 'guilty'.

...

The trial gave the world someone to blame for what it had lost, but sending Tomas to prison for years wouldn't change anything. Instead, at the end of their symbolic trial, they gave him a symbolic punishment.

Tomas was sentenced to work at the abandoned Extremely Large Telescope in Paranal, Chile. Nobody looked at the night sky now. No tourists climbed high mountains to see the edges of our galaxy, and no scientists asked for money to study the empty sky. All that passed through the night sky was the lonely moon, a handful of planets and the occasional comet. Looking up made people depressed.

Tomas thought it was fair. It was right that he should be punished, and working as an astronomer had become almost the same as prison. After a few years the world forgot about him, or at least decided to leave him alone. Every evening he would watch the sun go down. It vanished below the horizon exactly eight minutes and twenty seconds after it actually descended below the curve of the Earth. The laws of physics remained the same, much to Tomas's daily relief. Light still travelled at the same speed as it always had. He hadn't changed reality that much or, at least, he hoped he hadn't. If light travels at a certain speed, he thought, perhaps absence of light travels at the same speed. 

Of course, there was no way to prove his theory. Not yet. And, alone in the observatory, Tomas had nobody to share it with anyway. 

...

High in the mountains of Chile, Tomas continued to watch the night, his enormous telescope pointing towards a particular point of the sky, even though it was always just as empty as every other part. And each day, as the sun went down, he thought of the song his parents sang to him as a child:

 

Star light, star bright,
First star I see tonight,
I wish I may, I wish I might,
Have the wish I wish tonight.

 

For 1,596 black nights – nearly four and a half years – there was no change to the night sky. But that was OK. It didn't disprove Tomas's theory, it supported it. Tomas thought about the absence of light he had created and he imagined it like a wave, passing the sun and continuing out towards the edge of our galaxy and beyond. It would take 1,596 nights to pass the nearest star, and another 1,596 nights for that star's light to reach the Earth again … If the wave of darkness existed at all, of course. If his calculations were correct. If he was wrong, the stars really were gone forever. 

...

And then one night, another 1,596 nights later, almost nine years after the disaster, Tomas looked up from his telescope and saw Alpha Centauri twinkling back at him.

The first star.

He wiped the tears from his eyes and made a wish. Billions of other people's wishes followed right after it.

 

Story written by Andrew Leon Hudson and adapted by Nicola Prentis.